---
layout: post
title: BASH (Linux 3.2.1)
key: 20180321
tags: Linux bash
picture_frame: shadow
---


*We mentioned in the first chapter what Linux is: the operating system kernel manages the entire computer hardware, and this kernel needs to be protected! Therefore, we can only communicate with the kernel through a shell, so that the kernel can do the work we want. So how many shells does the system have available? Why do we use bash? Let's talk about it separately.*
<!--more-->


[Imgur](https://i.imgur.com/bVC5nAh.png)


### Why learn Shell


Why call it Shell cause inside it there is a kernal, like a egg.


Why learn a shell with a literal interface? Why don't use the X Windowns system, couple clicks all sorted. Why do you want to learn Linux anyway? you should stay in the MS-Windows system in the first place!


The answear is X Window and web interface tools, although its interface friendly, although powerful, but after all, it is a group of applications that all the software used to integrate it, not a complete suite.


### The system's legal shell and /etc/shells function


Now that you know what a Shell is, let's look at which Shell Linux USES. What! Which one? Isn't a shell "a shell?" Ha ha! That's not! Due to the number of developers in the early Unix era, there were many versions of shell according to different developers, such as Bourne shell (SH) commonly heard, C shell by default in Sun, K shell commonly used in business, TCSH, etc. Each shell had its own characteristics. The version used for Linux is known as the Bourne Again SHell (bash), an enhanced version of the Bourne SHell developed on the BASIS of the GNU framework


So how many shells do we have on our Linux (CentOS 5.x for example) that we can use? You could check the /etc/shells file. At least there are the shells at the bottom:

```
    /bin/sh (has been replaced by /bin/bash)
    /bin/bash (the default shell for Linux)
    /bin/ksh (Kornshell developed by AT&T Bell Lab. Compatible with bash)
    /bin/tcsh (integrate C Shell, provide more functions)
    /bin/csh (replaced by /bin/ TCSH)
    /bin/zsh (a more powerful shell developed based on KSH)
```



Which shell do I get by default as a user? When I log in, the system gives me a shell to work with. This login shell is recorded in `/etc/passwd`!

Note that `~/.bash_history` records the commands that were run durning the previous login, and the commands that were run this time are cached in memory. When you successfully log out of the system, the command memory is recorded in `~/.bash_history`

### Bash shell's capabilities

- History

Use `up` and `down` to navigate to the command you have been used, you can find the command caching the the memory, for this login, all commands will write to ~/.bash_history


-  Magical [Tab]

The `Tab` key is savior for typo-prone people like me :P
Example: type `c[Tab][Tab]` will list all commands start with letter 'c'
Press more `[Tab]`


- Alias

You can find out what the current command alias is by typing `alias` in the command line. You can also add new alias like this:
`alias lm='ls -al'`


- job control, foreground, background

We will talk about this part later


- Wild Card `*`

Example: `ls /usr/bin/X*` list all files start with capital letter X in a given path. You can also use `*`, `?`, `!`


- Shell Script

We will talk about this in [HERE]


### Bash shell's built-in command: type


Try typing `man bash`, it's a nice documentation for bash though it's too long!
You could use `type` to find out if one command is coming from an external command (referring to other commands not provided by bash) or is built into bash.

```
gcpvm@instance-1:~$ type ls
ls is aliased to `ls --color=auto'
gcpvm@instance-1:~$ type -t ls
alias
gcpvm@instance-1:~$ type -a ls
ls is aliased to `ls --color=auto'
ls is /bin/ls
gcpvm@instance-1:~$
gcpvm@instance-1:~$ type cd         <-- cd is a buildin command!
cd is a shell builtin
gcpvm@instance-1:~$
```
